packages/sandbox/README.md, before:

# @devs/sandbox

Isolated execution abstraction for shell commands and file I/O.

## Build

pnpm --filter @devs/sandbox run build

## Test

pnpm --filter @devs/sandbox test

## Source tree

```
src/
├── index.ts           # Public barrel export
├── providers/         # SandboxProvider abstraction barrels
│   └── index.ts
├── drivers/           # Concrete driver implementations
│   └── index.ts
├── filesystem/        # FilesystemManager barrel
│   └── index.ts
├── network/           # Network egress components
│   └── index.ts
├── types/             # Shared TypeScript types and interfaces
│   └── index.ts
└── utils/             # Internal utility functions
    └── index.ts
```

One-line descriptions:
- providers: Provider abstractions (SandboxProvider) used by consumers to inject implementations.
- drivers: Concrete drivers (process, container) that implement execution semantics.
- filesystem: FilesystemManager helpers and adapters.
- network: Network egress components and policies.
- types: Shared interfaces like SandboxExecResult and SandboxProvisionOptions.
- utils: Internal helpers not exported to consumers.

## .agent

Agent-Oriented Documentation (AOD) lives in `packages/sandbox/.agent` and provides module context, architectural decisions, hard constraints, dependency mappings, and a progress tracker for the package.

Files and purpose:
- `CONTEXT.md` — module purpose, phase context, public surface, integration points.
- `DECISIONS.md` — numbered, immutable architectural decisions.
- `CONSTRAINTS.md` — hard constraints that must be followed.
- `DEPENDENCIES.md` — upstream/downstream and driver-level external deps.
- `PROGRESS.md` — task progress tracker for the sub-epic.

AI agents should update these files as part of the TDD loop when implementing tasks in this package.

## Base Image

The sandbox base image is an immutable, minimal Alpine-based image pinned to an exact SHA-256 digest. It is built from alpine:3.19.1@sha256:1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 and runs a non-root user `agent` (UID 1001).

Rebuild:

pnpm --filter @devs/sandbox run build:base-image

Verify digest matches Dockerfile:

node -e "const m = require('./docker/base/image-manifest.json'); const fs = require('fs'); const df = fs.readFileSync('./docker/base/Dockerfile','utf8'); if(!df.includes(m.digest)) process.exit(1);"

## Testing

This package organizes tests into three tiers:

- unit: fast unit tests mirroring src/ submodules (tests/unit/)
- integration: integration tests for drivers and external interactions (tests/integration/)
- agent: agent-driven end-to-end behavioural tests (tests/agent/)

Run individual tiers:
- pnpm --filter @devs/sandbox test --project unit
- pnpm --filter @devs/sandbox test --project integration
- pnpm --filter @devs/sandbox test --project agent

Run coverage:
- pnpm --filter @devs/sandbox test:coverage

Coverage targets: lines >= 80%

Commit message:

phase_2:01_module_foundation_directory_structure/05_implement_bootstrap_sandbox_script.md: Implement bootstrap-sandbox Script

packages/sandbox/README.md, after:

# @devs/sandbox

Isolated execution abstraction for shell commands and file I/O.

## Build

pnpm --filter @devs/sandbox run build

## Test

pnpm --filter @devs/sandbox test

## Source tree

```
src/
├── index.ts           # Public barrel export
├── providers/         # SandboxProvider abstraction barrels
│   └── index.ts
├── drivers/           # Concrete driver implementations
│   └── index.ts
├── filesystem/        # FilesystemManager barrel
│   └── index.ts
├── network/           # Network egress components and policies
│   └── index.ts
├── types/             # Shared TypeScript types and interfaces
│   └── index.ts
└── utils/             # Internal utility functions
    └── index.ts
```

One-line descriptions:
- providers: Provider abstractions (SandboxProvider) used by consumers to inject implementations.
- drivers: Concrete drivers (process, container) that implement execution semantics.
- filesystem: FilesystemManager helpers and adapters.
- network: Network egress components and policies.
- types: Shared interfaces like SandboxExecResult and SandboxProvisionOptions.
- utils: Internal helpers not exported to consumers.

## .agent

Agent-Oriented Documentation (AOD) lives in `packages/sandbox/.agent` and provides module context, architectural decisions, hard constraints, dependency mappings, and a progress tracker for the package.

Files and purpose:
- `CONTEXT.md` — module purpose, phase context, public surface, integration points.
- `DECISIONS.md` — numbered, immutable architectural decisions.
- `CONSTRAINTS.md` — hard constraints that must be followed.
- `DEPENDENCIES.md` — upstream/downstream and driver-level external deps.
- `PROGRESS.md` — task progress tracker for the sub-epic.

AI agents should update these files as part of the TDD loop when implementing tasks in this package.

## Base Image

The sandbox base image is an immutable, minimal Alpine-based image pinned to an exact SHA-256 digest. It is built from alpine:3.19.1@sha256:1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 and runs a non-root user `agent` (UID 1001).

Rebuild:

pnpm --filter @devs/sandbox run build:base-image

Verify digest matches Dockerfile:

node -e "const m = require('./docker/base/image-manifest.json'); const fs = require('fs'); const df = fs.readFileSync('./docker/base/Dockerfile','utf8'); if(!df.includes(m.digest)) process.exit(1);"

## Testing

This package organizes tests into three tiers:

- unit: fast unit tests mirroring src/ submodules (tests/unit/)
- integration: integration tests for drivers and external interactions (tests/integration/)
- agent: agent-driven end-to-end behavioural tests (tests/agent/)

Run individual tiers:
- pnpm --filter @devs/sandbox test --project unit
- pnpm --filter @devs/sandbox test --project integration
- pnpm --filter @devs/sandbox test --project agent

Run coverage:
- pnpm --filter @devs/sandbox test:coverage

Coverage targets: lines >= 80%

## Scripts

- pnpm --filter @devs/sandbox run bootstrap-sandbox [docker|webcontainer] — run preflight bootstrap checks for the sandbox; defaults to "docker".
- On success: prints "Bootstrap OK (<driver>) in <duration>ms" and exits with code 0.
- On failure: prints "Bootstrap FAILED: <message>" and exits with code 1.
- Environment prerequisites: Docker daemon running for the "docker" driver; Node.js >= 22 for the "webcontainer" driver.
